Welcome to Moviecaps.
Today I will show you an Action, Sci-fi,
Thriller film from 2007, titled Next.
Spoilers ahead!
Watch out and take care.
Cris Johnson is a man with the unique ability
to see into his future. His ability lets him
see two minutes ahead, aside from a vision
he once had of a woman walking into a diner.
Since there are no details other than the
time, he goes to the diner twice a day at 8:09,
the time he saw in his vision, to wait for her to
arrive. To earn a living, he works as a small-time
magician in downtown Las Vegas. Cris attracts
the attention of an FBI agent Callie Ferris.
When he appears before a small audience, his
first trick is to find out where the man in the
white suit is from. Before letting him answer,
he says that he thinks he is a man from Seoul,
and the man answers that he is indeed from
Korea. When his wife comes on stage, he drops
her necklace into her drink without touching it.
He supplements his income by gambling and using
his powers to win over and over again
against the house and only the house.
Although he tries to do this in a low-key way, his
nonsensical gambling style attracts the attention
of the casino security guards, who believe Cris
is cheating. Just as they are talking about him,
he looks up at the camera, like he
is letting them know, that he knows.
As he is cashing out his chips, he uses his
foresight to prevent an impending robbery,
setting off a chase through the casino. Dozens of
security guards are after Cris, spotting him on
the cameras. Cris explains the thing about the
future - every time you look at it, it changes
because you looked at it. He eludes the pursuers
with clever tricks, such as cigarette smoke or a
precise movement. Cris retreats to the restroom
and immediately changes his clothes to avoid the
guards at the exit. Not at a single point of this
chase has he stood out. He steals a car. Which
leads to a chase with the police. Cris
quickly shakes off with the help of a train.
Callie found out the nature of his
ability. It has nothing to do with luck.
He has shown a pattern of advanced
consciousness that is statistically impossible.
Callie wants to get him to help them try to
stop terrorists from detonating a nuclear weapon
smuggled into the country. After reviewing the
casino tapes, Callie has discovered that he can
see about 2 minutes into the future. Ferris
tracks Cris down, thanks to the LoJack GPS.
She explains to him the situation with the
terrorists and everything she knows about him
and threatens Cris to help her. After seeing this
future, Cris runs away to avoid the confrontation.
Callie walks in and realizes she missed him by
seconds. Later that night, the casino's head
of security is approached by two terrorists who
interrogate him about Cris before killing him.
The next morning Cris is back in the diner,
watching the clock, when he finally sees
Liz Cooper, the woman from his vision. After
imagining various advances, all of which fail,
he intervenes when her ex-boyfriend (Kendall)
shows up and forces himself on her. Cris lets
Kendall hit him to earn affection points with Liz
and eventually manages to strike up a conversation
with her. Knowing she's on her way to Flagstaff,
Arizona, Cris convinces her to give him a lift.
In the car, they talk about fate and how
Liz thinks a predetermined future is boring.
Back at the diner, Callie learns from a waitress
that Cris is going to Flagstaff and pursues him.
At the same time, the terrorists at the docks,
concerned about the true nature of Cris's powers,
decide to get rid of him before the FBI can
use his abilities to expose their long-running
schemes. Liz visits her students at a canyon
where she teaches once a week to wish one of
her students a happy birthday. As a birthday
present for the boy, Cris shows him a magic
trick where he turns a rock into a lizard. Liz is
impressed and seems to take an interest in him.
Heavy rains come down and a washed out road
forces Cris and Liz to spend the night in a
hotel on the side of a canyon called Cliffhanger.
Cris sleeps in the car and makes Liz feel guilty.
Callie finds out Cris' whereabouts through
the video surveillance cameras. After tracking
down the nuke to Los Angeles, she convinces her
superiors to let her bring Cris in. The terrorists
who have been monitoring FBI also follow them
in hopes that the agents will lead them to Cris.
After Liz showers at the hotel, Cris makes a rose
out of paper and lights it as one of his magical
performances, then ensnares her and makes love
to her. Meanwhile, Callie and her team secure
the perimeter of the motel. Agent Callie confronts
Liz while she is walking near the hotel. Claiming
Cris is a dangerous sociopath, she asks her to
drug Cris so they can bring him in peacefully.
When she returns to the motel, she gives Cris
hygiene products and while he is in the bathroom,
Liz tries to get herself to drug him. Cris shows
her a lot of affection and she stops him from
drinking the drugged juice. Instead, Liz warns
Cris about Callie and explains what's going on.
Cris steps out onto the porch to
pretend to be drugged. At the same time,
the terrorists have also secured the perimeter
and are trying to take Cris out with a sniper.
Cris tells Liz that he can see his future and
demonstrates it to her. When she asks why he
is not helping the FBI stop the terrorists, he
tells her that he can not see the future except
for events that affect them. Cris gives Liz
instructions on how to escape. He gets out and
jumps off a cliff to escape the FBI agents waiting
to arrest him. A sniper from the terrorists shoots
at Cris. He dodges him with no problem. As
instructed, Liz sends the car down the hill.
This destroys the water tower, causing a chain
effect. Debree begins to fall, stopping the agents
in their tracks. Reaching the bottom, Cris is
intercepted by Callie. He saves her from the logs
tumbling down the mountain, and while immobilised,
the agents of FBI manage to capture him.
After the terrorists see that the FBI
have caught him, they kidnap Liz instead.
In custody, Cris is strapped to a
chair with his eyes held open and
forced to watch television until he
has a vision that can help the FBI.
Expecting to see a report on the detonation of
the bomb, he instead sees a broadcast several
hours in the future in which Liz is killed by a
bomb while tied to a wheelchair as bait for Cris.
After the interrogation yielded no results, he is
taken to a holding cell. Before the guard leaves,
he asks for a smoke and by using his ability
defeats everyone in hand-to-hand combat and
escapes from the holding facility. He races to the
parking garage where he had his vision about Liz.
A chase begins. Callie catches up with
Chris and offers to help rescue Liz.
She explains to him that the people who kidnapped
her are the ones who want to detonate the bomb.
They use her as bait to get to him. They
set a trap for one of the terrorists
by pretending Cris was hit by his gunshot
and then get rid of him with a helicopter.
Cris foresees Liz being taken to the parking
lot in a van and looks at the licence plate.
He helps FBI track the terrorists to the port
where they are staying. Cris coordinates the FBI,
how they should act and what will happen based on
his vision. FBI intercepts the van with Liz and a
shootout ensues between the FBI and the terrorist
group. Cris tells Callie the perfect timing for
shooting the gasoline barrels near the van so Liz
does not die and escapes captivity. In all the
chaos, he still keeps his cool and provides quick
information to the agents. Meanwhile, Liz tries
everything she can to escape the terrorists who
are looking for her, but is captured anyway. The
terrorists use Liz as a shield, boarding a ship
and planting motion detecting explosives along
the way. All of this is completely ineffective
against Cris whatsoever. We see countless futures
of Cris searching the place for clues until he
finds Liz with the leader of the terrorists.
When Cris confronts the leader, he tells him
that he has seen all possible outcomes and
none have been in his favor. Therefore, he
asks him to surrender peacefully. Since he
already knows the answer to his own question, he
continues forward walking right up to the leader
dodging all bullets by seeing their trajectory.
After killing the terrorists and rescuing Liz,
they discover that the bomb has already been
moved. Ferris shows Cris a seismograph, hoping
that he will see quakes caused by explosions
before they happen. As he stares at the screen,
he realizes he has made a mistake and is
too late. The bomb explodes in the city,
destroying it and them in the process. Yet Cris
and Liz are still asleep in their Arizona hotel
before Liz goes outside and is confronted by
Agent Callie. Because of Liz's involvement
in the events, Cris was able to see further
into the future and foresee what might happen.
He calls Callie to make a deal, then says goodbye
to Liz and asks her to wait for him before heading
outside to meet with Callie and help stop the
terrorists. Here is the thing about the future.
Every time you look at it, it changes because
you looked at it. And that changed everything.
The end. Thank you for watching! Subscribe
if you'd like to see more videos like this.